# Golang Basics
###### notes from Golang documentation (mainly)

### Get Started with Go

#### Write some code

Get started with Hello, World.

  1. Open a command prompt and cd to your home directory
     On Linux or mac: 
	cd

  2. Create a hello directoru for your first Go source code.

     For example, use the following commands:
	mkdir hello
	cd hello

  3. Enable dependency tracking for your code.

     When your code imports packages contained in other modules, you manage those dependencies
     through your code's own module. That module is defined by a go.mod file that tracks the modules
     that provide those packages. That go.mod file stays with your code, including in your source
     code repository.

     To enable depency tracking for your code by creating a go.mod file, run the *go mod init* command,
     giving it the name of the module your code will be in. The name is the module's path. In most
     cases, this will be the repository location where your source code will be kept, such as 
     *github.com/mymodule*. If you plan to publish your module for others to use, the module path must
     be a location from which Go tools can download your module.

     For the purposes of this tutorial, just use example.com/hello.

	$ go mod init example.com/hello
	go: creating new go.mod: module example.com/hello

  4. In your text editor, create a file hello.go in which to write your code.

  5. Paste the following code into your hello.go file and save the file.

	package main

	import "fmt"

	func main(){
		fmt.Println("Hello, World!")
	}

     This is your Go code. In this code you:

          * Declare a main package (a package is a way to group functions, and it's made up of all 
            the files in the same directory).

          * Import the popular fmt package, which contains functions for fomatting text, including
            printing to the console. This package is one of the **standard library** packages you
            got when you installed Go.

          * Implement a main function to print a message to the console. A *main* function executes
            by default when you run the main package.

  6. Run your code to see the greeting.

	$ go run .
	Hello, World!

#### Call code in an external package

When you need your code to do something that might have been implemented by someone else, you can look
for a package that has functions you can use in your code.

  1. Make your printed message a little more interesting with a function from an external module.
     
     1. Visit pkg.go.dev and search for a "quote" package.
     2. Locate and click the rsc.io/quote package in search results.
     3. In the **Documentation** section, under **Index**, note the list of functions you can call from your code. You will use the *Go* function.
     4. At the top of this page, note thtat package quote is included in the rsc.io/quote module.

     You can use the pkg.go.dev site to find the published modules whose packages have functions you
can use in your own code. Packages are published modules -- like rsc.io/quote - where others can use
them. Modules are improved with new versions over time, and you can upgrade your code to use the 
improved versions.

  2. In your Go code, import the rsc.io/quote package and add a call to its Go function.
     
     After adding the highlighted lines, your code should include the following:

	package main

	import "fmt"

	import "rsc.io/quote"

	func main() {
		fmt.Println(quote.Go())
	}

  3. Add new module requirements and sums.

     Go will add the quote module as a requirement, as well as a go.sum file for use in authenticating 
the module.

	$ go mod tidy
	go: finding module for package rsc.io/quote
	go: found rsc.io/quote in resc.io/quote v1.5.2

  4. Run your code to see the message generated by the function calling.

	$ go run .
	Don't communicate by sharing memory, share memory by communicating.

     Note that your code calls the *Go* function, printing a clever message abour communication.

     Whe you ran *go mod tidy*, it located and downloaded the rsc.io/quote module that contains the
package you imported. By default, it downloaded the latest version -- v.1.5.2

### Create a Go Module

#### Start a module that others can use

Start by creating a Go module. In a module, you collect one or more related packages for a discrete
and useful set of functions. For example, you might create a module with packages that have functions
for doing financial analysis so that others writing financial applications can use your work.

Go code is grouped into packages, and packages are grouped into modules. Your module specifies 
dependencies needed to run your code, including the Go version and the set of other modules it requires.

As you add or improve functionality in your module, you publish new versions of the module. Developers
writing code that calls a function in your module can import the module's updated packages and test
with the new version before putting it into production use.

  1. Open a command prompt and cd to your home directory.

	cd

  1. Create a *greetings* directory for your Go module source code.

	mkdir greetings
	cd greetings

  1. Start your module using the *go mod init command* 

     Run the *go mod init* command, giving ut your module path -- here, use example.com/greetings.
If you publish a module, this *must* be a path from which your module can be downloaded by Go tools.
That would be your code's repository.

	$ go mod init example.com/greetings
	go: creating new go.mod: module example.com/greetings

     The *go mod init* command creates a go.mod file to track your code's dependencies. So far, the
file includes only the name of your module and the Go version your code supports. But as you add dependencies, the go.mod file will list the versions your code depends on. This keeps build 
reproducible and gives you direct control over which module versions to use.

  1. In your text editor, create a file in which to write your code and call it greetings.go.

  1. Paste the following code into your greetings.go file and save the file.

	package greetings

	import "fmt"

	// Hello returns a greeting for the named person.
	func Hello(name string) string {
		//Return a greeting that embeds the name in a message.
		message := fmt.Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)
		return message
	}

     This is the first code for your module. It returns a greeting to any caller that asks for one.
You will write code that calls this function in the next step.

     In this code, you:

       * Declare a *greetings* package to collect related functions.
       * Implement a *Hello* function to return the greeting.

           The function takes a *name* parameter whose type is *string*. The function also returns
a *string*. In Go, a function whose name starts with a capital letter can be called by a function
not in the same package. This is known in Go as an exported name.

	func Hello(name string) string 

       * Declare a *message* variable to hold your greeting.

            In Go, the := operator is a shortcut for declaring and intializing a variable in one line
(Go uses the value on the right to determine the variable's type). Taking the long way, you might 
have written this as:

	var message string
	message = fmt.Sprintf("Hi, %v. Welcome!", name)

       * Use the fmt package's Sprintf function to create a greeting message. The firs argument is
a format string, and Sprintf substitute the name parameter's value for the %v format verb. Inserting
the value of the name parameter completes the greeting text.

       * Return the formatted greeting text to the caller.


